---
title: Why My Love-Hate Relationship with Nix Continues
date: 10/06 — 2024
tags:
  - Nix
  - Rant

description: A rant about why I hate Nix. Did I mention I love Nix?
---

## Lost in the Weeds

Nix may sound like Unix, but it offers a unique set of tools designed for package and environment management, with _consistency_ and _reproducibility_ at its core.

- Building and managing packages and systems
- Managing software environments, systems, and configurations
- Ensuring _consistency_ and _reproducibility_ across all the aforementioned

If you're looking for more than a surface-level intro to Nix, besides [rants](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=23251895) on YCombinator, [Alexander Bantyev](https://github.com/balsoft) did a really good job at [explaining it in layman's terms](https://serokell.io/blog/what-is-nix).

### What Does This Mean

In practice, the power of being able to recreate an environment within seconds anywhere Nix runs is immense.  
<br>

These environments are all _isolated_ and _reproducible_, which ensures _conflict-free portability_ through a single source of truth—a simple configuration file that tells Nix how something is built. Here’s a vague example showing Nix in practice:  
<br>

```nix
{
  description = "A simple script that sums two numbers";
  inputs.utils.url = "github:numtide/flake-utils";

  outputs =
    {
      self,
      nixpkgs,
      utils,
    }:
    utils.lib.eachDefaultSystem (
      system:
      let
        pkgs = import nixpkgs { inherit system; };
        name = "sum";
      in
      rec {
        defaultPackage = packages.sum;
        packages.sum = pkgs.writeShellScriptBin name ''
          	echo $(($1 + $2))
        '';
      }
    );
}
```

### Sounds Sweet

What's the catch? It sounds too good to be true—and it isn't; if you don't count _complexity_ and _lack of adoption_.  
<br>

Nix is fundamentally different from mainline distros due to how it is engineered, such as the lack of [FHS](https://refspecs.linuxfoundation.org/FHS_3.0/fhs-3.0.pdf) compliance and the necessity of doing everything _declaratively_, making things tricky.  
<br>

> Note that doing things _imperatively_ isn't impossible; it's just heavily frowned upon as it goes against the whole point of Nix and is incredibly _error-prone_.

<br>

The language can often be _confusing_ or, worse, produce "impossible" to debug errors, like the infamous _infinite recursion encountered_.  
<br>

Getting something that isn't already packaged working can be a nightmare.  
<br>

Dealing with _functional programming purists_ can be challenging; but at least, [there is no war in Ba Sing Se](https://github.com/KFearsoff/nix-drama-explained).

## Quid ergo?

> _A Latin phrase_ meaning "So what?"

<br>

Nothing, really. I just wanted to share my experience.  
Overall, I'm _enamoured_ with it but also _repulsed_; it is a sort of paradoxical toxic relationship.  
<br>

Despite the pain it can bring, I truly believe that Nix is a glimpse into the _future_ of package management—and I hope it becomes more accessible to accelerate that future.
