---
pin: true

title: Rules For Working With Me
date: 09/02 — 2025
tags:
  - Productivity
  - Rant

description: Some rules to work with me, because, seriously, it's not easy.
---

## Why do I need this?

I am a difficult person. I have _strong preferences_, _rules_, and _boundaries_, that need to be adhered to, in a non professional environment.  
<br />

Working on the basis of _full transparency_ regarding my necessities is a great _filter_ when looking for the right people; I enjoy building things, and I enjoy even more the process of building an infrastructure to build things on.  
<br />
Thus, [the limits of my language mean the limits of my world](https://www.goodreads.com/quotes/5475578-5-6-the-limits-of-my-language-mean-the-limits-of), you're free to collaborate with me on any of my projects, so long as we share the same views.

## Regulae sacrae

> _A Latin phrase_ meaning "Sacred Rules"

<br /> Every single one of my projects, to an extent, has a standardised set of _tooling_ you'll have to learn and use to _collaborate_. _Ethics_ and _attitude_ also plays a big part in it.

### [Conventional Commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) + [Gitmoji](https://gitmoji.dev/)

I'm a firm believer that, _good commit messages_ equals to a better collaboration experience, be it in _debugging_, _blaming_, _reverting_, and so on; it can be tedious, thus the usage of [Koji](https://github.com/cococonscious/koji) is recommended but _not required_ for committing to my repositories.

### [Conventional Branches](https://conventional-branch.github.io/)

Not much to say, refer to the previous heading.

### Ante agendum, dic

> _A Latin phrase_ meaning "Before acting, tell"

<br /> Nobody enjoys _merge conflicts_, _diverging histories_, _force-pushes_, and such. And quite frankly, I'd just prefer _clear communication_ over doing whatever you feel like whenever you feel like.

### Adhere

I like _linters_ & _formatters_, I like it even more when code is _clean_, _elegant_, and properly _formatted_. I generally have hooks setup for _Nix_ users, but if you don't use _Nix_ I always provide the tooling needed to format and/or lint the project in _scripts_.  
<br />

Touching back on the previous paragraph, while I'm not personally a die-hard _functional programming_ enthusiast, I would prefer elegant _declarative_ approaches rather than abominable _imperative_ ones;

#### Don't

Imperative, ugly, i-hate-you.  
<br />

```py
xs = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
evens = []

for x in xs:
    if x % 2 == 0:
        evens.append(x)

print(evens)

```

<br />

```js
const xs = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10];
const evens = [];

for (const of xs) {
  if (x % 2 === 0) {
    evens.push(x);
  }
}

console.log(evens);
```

#### Do

Elegant, concise, i-love-you.  
<br />

```py
xs = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10]
evens = list(filter(lambda x: x % 2 == 0, xs))

print(evens)
```

<br />

```js
const xs = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10];
const evens = xs.filter((x) => x % 2 === 0);

console.log(evens);
```

### Do Not Argue Pointlessly

I _like_ talking, I will listen to your _opinion_, _patiently_, weigh the _pros_ and _cons_, and then decide whether it's a _"yes"_ or a _"no."_
<br />
If I say no, and give you a reason for it, I really do not want to argue any more in bad faith, it just makes me not want to work with you. At all.

### Ask
